{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f27\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive 
\sbasedon10 page number;}{\s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 \sbasedon0 \snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}}{\info{\author Andrew Moffatt-Vallance}{\operator Andrew}{\creatim\yr2000\mo7\dy1\hr13\min14}
{\revtim\yr2002\mo12\dy1\hr13\min5}{\version30}{\edmins82}{\nofpages19}{\nofwords1433}{\nofchars8169}{\*\company Kindyworks Graphics}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale132\viewzk2 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\footer \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\adjustright 
\fs20\lang3081 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16\lang1024 19}}}{\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306\adjustright {
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 0}}}{\b\f1  High Guard Shipyard - Ship Designer
\par }{\f1 
\par This application is intended to design ships according to the rules in Traveller Book 5 - High Guard. It can be integrated with the Squadron Designer to produce Squadrons to be used with Adventure 5 - Trillion Credit Squadron. Traveller, High Guard and Tr
illion Credit Squadron are Trademarks of Far Future Enterprises and are copyright 1977-2002.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 1}}}{\b\f1  How to Design a Ship
\par }{\f1 
\par For the purposes of this application, each ship is composed of several Modules. Each Module is designed separately and they combine to make the ship.
\par 
\par To start a design, select New from the File Menu (this will clear all the current values and return the application to its default settings). Alternately, you can select Open, and use an existing design as a template (however, in this case 
remember to use the Save As option rather than the Save to avoid overwriting the existing design).
\par 
\par Once you have your design open, you can now enter the basic specifications of your design. These are the values displayed on the Main Form (Ship Name, Class
, Type, Architect etc). These values can be changed at any time, but doing so may effect all the Modules in your ship and cause it to become invalid. When you are satisfied with your basic specification, clicking the Apply button will enter these values f
or the ship. Clicking the Reset Button will cause them to revert to their previous values. Selecting Restore from the File Menu at any time will restore the values from the version of the ship last saved to disk.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 2}}}{\b\f1  Designing a Module
\par }{\f1 
\par Once you have selected your ships basic specifications, you can then design the various Modules. To design a module, select the Module you wish to design from the File Menu. This will display that Module\rquote s design form.
\par 
\par On that form you can then enter the specifications fo
r that Module. Once you are satisfied with these, click the OK button. This will check the values and if they are valid, assign these values to the ship and return you to the Main Form. Clicking the Cancel button at anytime will clear the Form and return 
y
ou to the Main Form. If any of the entries on the Form will result in an invalid design, normally an error message will be displayed and the Form will not close. However, in some cases (where the error may require access to another form to correct), you w
ill be given the option of changing the values or leaving the Form. If you choose to leave the Form, you should go to the relevant Module and correct the problem.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 3}}}{\b\f1  User Defined Components
\par }{\f1 
\par The User Defined form allows you to create components not cove
red by the standard High Guard rules (things such as missile magazines, capture tanks, labs etc). The form allows for up to eight different types of User Defined components. All the characteristics of each component are based on the number of that type of
 component installed. Therefore it is important to note that a components Crew, Energy Point, Cost and Hardpoint requirements are absolute and not tonnage based.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 4}}}{\b\f1  The Design Assistant
\par }{\f1 
\par The Design Assistant can be called from any module form by pressing F3. This will call a simple display that will calculate the effects the current data on the form will have on your ship. This allows you to test your changes before you apply them.
\par 
\par The Design Assistant will display Remaining Tonnage, Remaining Budget, Remaining Energy Points, Crew and Agility. It will also warn you if your changes result in an invalid design.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 5}}}{\b\f1  Saving your Work
\par }{\f1 
\par Select Save from the File Menu. If you wish to save the ship to a different file name, select Save As. If your design is invalid, you will be asked if you wish to save it. If you select Yes, the ship will be saved.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 6}}}{\b\f1  Checking your Design
\par }{\f1 
\par It is possible to design a ship that does not fully comply wit
h the rules in High Guard. If your design does not meet the rules set out in High Guard (ie is an Invalid Design), a warning message will be displayed on the Main Form. If you move the cursor over this text, a hint message telling you what is wrong will b
e displayed
\par 
\par Alternately, you can check to see if your ship complies with these rules by selecting Check Design from the file menu. This will evaluate your design and see if it violates the High Guard rules and a complete listing of all errors will be displayed.

\par 
\par Please note, that the normal evaluation process will find and display only the last design violation, therefore it is a good idea to check the design again after correcting any problems or to use the Check Design option available in the file menu
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 7}}}{\b\f1  Analysing your Ship
\par }{\f1 
\par Clicking the Shipcard button will display a Form that presents the Ship\rquote s USP (Universal Ship Profile). Clicking the Print button on this form will print this analysis.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 8}}}{\b\f1  Exporting your Ship\rquote s USP
\par }{\f1 
\par Select Export USP from the File Menu. This will export the Ship\rquote s USP to an ASCII text file.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 9}}}{\b\f1  Exporting your Ship in descriptive format
\par }{\f1 
\par Select Text Export from the File Menu. This will export the Ship\rquote s USP followed by a full descriptive listing of the ship to an ASCII text file.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 10}}}{\b\f1  Adding Design Comments
\par }{\f1 
\par Clicking the Comments button will take you to a simple text editor where you can enter comments about your design.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 11}}}{\b\f1  Changing the Application\rquote s Default Settings
\par }{\f1 
\par Select Make Default from the File Menu. This will make the current Ship design the default settings.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 12}}}{\b\f1  Racial Effects
\par }{\f1 
\par Most Ships will be designed according to the standard High Guard rules. However, some of the races in Traveller have variant rules 
effecting ship design. You can select the race you wish the ship to reflect on the Main Form. A brief summary of the effects is provided below:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1 Hiver - Single Race:
\par }\pard \li426\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 The Avionics of Single Race Hiver ships will be smaller and less expensive. On the other hand, Hivers can not survive suspended animation and Low Berths fitted on Hiver ships will be more expensive
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }{\i\f1 Hiver - Mixed Race:
\par }\pard \li426\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Much the same as Single Race Hiver ships. However, the need for multiple controls will negate some of the space advantages
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }{\i\f1 K\rquote Kree:
\par }\pard \li426\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 K\rquote Kree ships require much greater space to be allocated to weaponry and accommodations. K\rquote Kree ships almost always use Configuration 6 (Flattened Sphere) Hulls
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }{\i\f1 Droyne:
\par }\pard \li426\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Droyne have lower life support requirements and staterooms on their ships accommodations will require less space and be less expensive
\par }\pard \fi-1843\li1843\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 13}}}{\b\f1  Crew Rules
\par }{\f1 
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 Most designs will use the crew rules set out in High Guard. However, ships of 1000 Tons and less may use the crew rules set out in Traveller Book 2 - Starships. This can be selected on the Main Form.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 14}}}{\b\f1  Marines and Ship\rquote s Troops
\par }{\f1 
\par Ships may carry Marines or a Shipboard Security Detail (rare ships may carry both). In most published High Guard USPs, Marines are reported as \ldblquote Ships Troops\rdblquote 
 and Shipboard Security Details are ignored. This is not the case with USPs generated by this program. Shipboard Security Details represent normal security personnel (1 per 1000 tons of displacement) and Ships Troops are reported as Marines.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 15}}}{\b\f1  Final Costs
\par }{\f1 
\par The Final cost reported in the USP is the cost (including carried craft costs) without any discounts and before any architect\rquote s fees have been applied. Both these are reported separately.
\par 
\par The costs of small craft may be entered in the Craft design window. However, please note that no architects fees or quantity discounts will be applied to these costs.
\par \page }{\cs18\b\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 16}}}{\b\f1  Keyboard Helpers
\par }{\f1 
\par To aid in ship design there are a number of keyboard helpers.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {All Forms
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1   F3 Key: Launch Design Assistant
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Main Form, Tech Level Edit Box
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1   Up Arrow: Increase the Tech Level by one
\par   Down Arrow: Decrease the Tech Level by one (with a minimum of seven)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Main Form, Tonnage Edit and Budget Edit Boxes
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1   Up Arrow: Increase by ten
\par   Up Arrow plus Shift: Increase by one hundred
\par   Up Arrow plus Control: Increase by one thousand
\par   Up Arrow plus Alt: Increase by ten thousand
\par   Down Arrow: Decrease by ten (with a minimum of zero)
\par   Down Arrow plus Shift: Decrease by one hundred (with a minimum of zero)
\par   Down Arrow plus Control: Decrease by one thousand (with a minimum of zero)
\par   Down Arrow plus Alt: Decrease by ten thousand (with a minimum of zero)
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Main Form, Class Edit Box
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1   F4 Key: Synchronise class name with ship name
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Main Form, Type and Code Edit Boxes
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1   F5 Key: Synchronise Type and Code
\par   F5 Key plus Control: Launch Type/Code edit form
\par   F5 Key plus Alt: Display High Guard Ship Type Codes
\par 
\par \page }{\cs18\f1\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\cs18\super #}{ 17}}}{\f1  }{\b\f1 Release Notes
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.01
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in fractional tonnages fixed
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in reporting backup engineering in USP fixed
\par Error in losing path to defaults file fixed
\par Allows less than 30 days power plant fuel
\par Allows power plant fuel in other than multiples of 30 days
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.02
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in pulse laser factors fixed
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Pulse lasers now reported on USP
\par Added Marines for Book 2 crews
\par Gunners now correctly listed for Book 2 crews
\par Computer data fixed
\par Small craft gunners fixed
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.03
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added option to charge for turrets and hardpoints
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added extra capacitors for black globes
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.04
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in small craft fuel scoops fixed
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in planetoid armour fixed
\par Error in minimum fuel reporting fixed
\par Error in pulse laser reporting fixed
\par Error in Meson Screen energy fixed
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.05
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added Autocalculate Accommodations to Options form
\par Allowed full sized staterooms in small craft
\par Allowed couches in big craft
\par Fixed error in computer drop down
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added Text Export
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.10
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in Text Export fuel calculations fixed
\par Error in file validity checking fixed
\par Error in design validity checking fixed
\par Error in fuel load fixed (now based on 28 day loads)
\par Added comments box
\par Added costs for carried craft
\par Added support for T20 hulls (currently disabled)
\par Added splash screen
\par Added full listing of all errors
\par Added Design Assistant (press F3 to activate)
\par Added support for Extra Fuel (in tons)
\par Added User Defined components
\par Removed automatic calculation of Frozen Watch
\par Improved reporting in Text Export
\par Improved Autocalculate of Accommodations
\par Clarified Ships Troops and Marines
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.11
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in Low Berth calculations fixed
\par Error in Small Craft Computers fixed
\par Errors in spelling fixed
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.12
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added keyboard helpers on main form
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.13
\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Error in planetoid armour reporting fixed
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Added further keyboard helpers on main form
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\keepn\widctlpar\outlinelevel0\adjustright \i\f1\fs20\lang3081 {Changes in Version 1.14
\par }\pard\plain \fi-284\li426\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang3081 {\f1 Memory leak in Spinal Mount form fixed
\par Error in additional fuel calculations fixed
\par Error in reporting of mixed turret sandcasters fixed
\par Error in K\rquote kree power plants fixed
\par Error in Turret Weapon factors fixed
\par Error in Tech Level, Tonnage and Budget edit boxes fixed
\par Added support for T20 design rules
\par Added Clear and Restore options to the comments form
\par Added Clear All option to file menu (this will reset all values of the ship to zero)
\par Allowed the use of Book 5 crew rules for ships of any tonnage
\par Allowed the use of Book 2 crew rules for ships up to 5,000 tons
\par Interactive links to Far Futures, Quiklink Interactive and CT-Starships list added to the About box.
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f1 
\par }}